# Lie Groups

Advanced mathematics severely suffers from two big problems. Firstly, people tend to wipe out the initial problem and context which has spawned a new domain, in favour of axiomatics. The hope is that axiomatics better compresses knowledge, but we get the opposite. The only way to understand where we are, globally, is to trace history. We may have tons of theory books, but there is only one historical path and the set of big events is quite finite, even in modern mathematics. The second issue is the so called "framework within a framework" problem. Some rich programs of Bernhard Riemann, Sophus Lie, Felix Klein, Henri Poincaré start out from concrete problems solvable with calculus and linear algebra. This has little to do with the Bourbaki program, measure theory, manifolds, and all that crap bolted on later. Consider an example of Lie groups approached "the wrong way".

There is a theorem in Lie theory which states: An invariant multivariate function $f$ satisfies the necessary and sufficient condition $Gf=0$, where $G$ is the Lie group generator, see e.g. &#167; 68, page 82 in [J. E. Campbell (1903)](https://archive.org/details/introductorytrea00campuoft). Abraham Cohen (1911) and Leonard Eugene Dickson (1924) are also readable (Bourbaki-free). [Pavel Zhilin (2003)](https://ru.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%96%D0%B8%D0%BB%D0%B8%D0%BD,_%D0%9F%D0%B0%D0%B2%D0%B5%D0%BB_%D0%90%D0%BD%D0%B4%D1%80%D0%B5%D0%B5%D0%B2%D0%B8%D1%87_(%D0%BC%D0%B5%D1%85%D0%B0%D0%BD%D0%B8%D0%BA))  extends the theorem to the functions of multiple transforming objects of different types (vectors and matrices): [(2003 Ru)](http://teormeh.net/Zhilin_New/pdf/Zhilin_Invariant_rus.pdf), [(2005 Eng)](http://teormeh.net/Zhilin_New/pdf/Zhilin_Invariant_eng.pdf).

The invariance requirement is posed as a functional equation. It is solved with a trick which gives a single weight to all the group parameters (I would have differentiated w.r.t. all the parameters independently, only to become lost).

Paradoxically, theoretical mechanics is the only domain where I have found a method to construct invariant functions. A brilliant work which distills Lie theory into a coherent solution chain.
